data/README.md, before:

# Data Directory

This folder contains the WCAG data sources for the MCP server.

## Data Files

- **`wcag.json`** - WCAG 2.2 principles, guidelines, success criteria, techniques, and glossary (fetched from W3C)
- **`act-rules.json`** - ACT (Accessibility Conformance Testing) test rules (copied from submodule)

## wcag (Git Submodule)

The `wcag/` directory is a git submodule pointing to [w3c/wcag](https://github.com/w3c/wcag), the official W3C WCAG repository.

### Updating the Data

To fetch the latest data:

```bash
npm run build:data
```

This will:
1. Fetch the published `wcag.json` from W3C
2. Copy the ACT rules mapping from the submodule

To also update the submodule to the latest commit:

```bash
npm run update:data
```

### Attribution

WCAG data from the [W3C WCAG Repository](https://github.com/w3c/wcag) ([W3C Document License](https://www.w3.org/copyright/document-license/)).

> This software includes material copied from or derived from Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/. Copyright © 2023 W3C® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio, Beihang).

Commit message:

feat: Enhance WCAG MCP server with Understanding documentation
- Added jsdom as a dependency for parsing HTML documents.
- Refactored fetch-wcag-data.js to remove ACT rules copying and focus on fetching WCAG data.
- Updated data-helpers.js to remove ACT rules related functions.
- Removed ACT tools from tools.js and related functionalities.
- Introduced a unified build script (build.js) to streamline the build process.
- Created parse-understanding-docs.js to parse Understanding documentation from HTML files.
- Developed demo-understanding.js to demonstrate the enhanced Understanding content.
- Implemented test scripts (test-act-removal.js, test-mcp.js, test-understanding.js) to validate server functionality post-ACT removal.
- Enhanced WCAG data structure to include Understanding content for success criteria.

data/README.md, after:

# Data Directory

This folder contains the WCAG data sources for the MCP server.

## Data Files

- **`wcag.json`** - WCAG 2.2 principles, guidelines, success criteria, techniques, glossary, and Understanding documentation (enhanced with content from W3C)

## wcag (Git Submodule)

The `wcag/` directory is a git submodule pointing to [w3c/wcag](https://github.com/w3c/wcag), the official W3C WCAG repository. This provides the Understanding documentation HTML files.

### Updating the Data

To fetch the latest data:

```bash
npm run build
```

This will:
1. Update the WCAG git submodule to the latest version
2. Fetch the published `wcag.json` from W3C
3. Parse and integrate Understanding documentation from HTML files

To also update the submodule to the latest commit:

```bash
npm run update:data
```

### Attribution

WCAG data from the [W3C WCAG Repository](https://github.com/w3c/wcag) ([W3C Document License](https://www.w3.org/copyright/document-license/)).

> This software includes material copied from or derived from Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2 https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/. Copyright © 2023 W3C® (MIT, ERCIM, Keio, Beihang).
